hi guys my name's uh john sue
i'm the uh cto of coda usa and i'm the
board of advisors
uh essentially uh when i was exposed to
this technology called coda
uh my my gut reaction is this is really
a super cool
uh decentralized computing platform in
the shape of a dog
which is uh which is entirely accurate
um
my background's in cyber security for
the last 25 years uh
and specifically innovating and
decentralized computing
and and how to secure decentralized
computing
from uh you know metadata attack vectors
and uh
allowing to get the maximum of
efficiency out of something like this
while uh preserving anonymity and
securing the environments so uh i wasn't
particularly interested in coda coda uh
utilizes uh go ipfs with the hd
um you know at the core and uh is a
a pretty amazing robotic dog so let's
talk about it
so uh way back in 2018
uh a group of engineers and designers at
coda really wanted to build a
decentralized computing ai platform
and they had experience with with
different form factors
and what really came to light was if you
could come up with something that was
entirely
useful you know to to the world at large
but had the ability in its downtime
to allow its owners to volunteer
their uh you know the computing
you know the computing processing power
of something that would require
quite a bit when used uh that'd be
pretty uh that'd be pretty amazing
and uh this is where coda comes from uh
coda
will win this is to be released guys
this is an a a
very late stage prototype will be uh
announced soon
uh for a privatization but essentially
what it will allow is its users to
volunteer the computing time
uh on a coda which has a you know a
multitude of uh
processors uh obviously runs go ipfs
uh with the ht um and we'll certainly
take advantage of you know things that
are coming out in six and seven
joining five right now um
but it's really set up so that it can
allow a user to select what projects for
example for decentralized computing
but also even in the default state allow
it to be a node
and that's that's the idea to um
you know proliferate this idea of
decentralized computing
um without the hindrances and restraints
of
you know using you know kind of the
traditional
traditional vendors let's say
the idea here is there is going to be a
coda store um
the only reason apple's on here is just
to give you know an analogy of what
we're talking
about um that not only will there be
decentralized apps that can be run
on uh your coda or a coda that you're
uh getting volunteer time on uh to use
um but it will also allow uh there's a
full uh
sdk and api obviously available uh
for uh for access to coda's uh
coda's uh univision systems audible
systems
um but most importantly it's uh array of
uh computing uh computing systems
a little bit overview and again this is
really just meant to be an intro
i'm not going too deep into this i'll go
a little bit into the architecture for
those that are interested but uh
essentially it's very cute one of the
first things i had come to mind is
i've seen just like i'm sure a lot of
you on youtube you know kind of what
robotic dogs can look like and they're
certainly very capable uh things out
there
um this one has a head which i thought
was a great start
um one of the very cool things about
this um you know having this kind of
decentralized computing platform for ai
on a dog is all the kind of dog
things that are replicated not because
they're contrived by
you know the creators and the
manufacturing it's because kind of how
dogs work
so for example there's there's really
there's 14 motors
on this dog and there's a gambling
system
uh for the head and because of the way
the microphones are set up
in the uh i just thought this was
particularly interesting so i'm sharing
it
the way the microphones are set up in
the head
you know like any real dog you know a
dog that is trying to
um identify a sound source and and
receive the most uh
you know sound waves from whomever or
whatever is making that sound
it will arc its head so kind of does a
cant you know in order to
in order to uh to hear you know better
and that's exactly how a real dog works
and because of the placement of these
sensors and how the motor you know
they've gone through a lot of effort and
putting the motors um
kind of how a real dog works with the
you know obviously the gate
but also how it utilizes the sensors
it's got a very cool effect
um in the system um for my part of this
i'm particularly interested in
obviously doing my background in cyber
security
um in the uh you know protection of not
just
private data and personal data but also
the data
for when coda's time is being
volunteered and we're particularly
sensitive to that
just thought i'd mention that
so uh this this i'm going to go into
much detail but
it does use a a fusion of cpus
there are several as you might imagine
uh it has 14 motors
uh it has actually five 3d cameras this
this is a little dated sorry guys uh
this uses v slam
um some of your newer uh you know rumba
vacuum cleaners
roomba vacuum cleaners uses v slam uh to
navigate and to judge distance uh
so does tesla i believe mercedes does as
well i'm not totally sure on that guy so
please don't quote me
um but it is amazing uh technology
so uh he uses v-slam and obviously needs
a visual recognition and tracking system
and intelligent uh hearing technology
and this is used for identification not
just because
you know it needs to be able to receive
commands or instructions audibly
uh one of the first uh one of the first
ideas for using coders in general
are for visually impaired people and so
uh if you have someone who would benefit
from a
uh you know living and breathing seeing
eye dog
um you know coda can be particularly
advantageous
uh as a supplement and and sometimes a
replacement depending on what's needed
um but it needs to be able to act and
understand its user just like a
living and breathing animal would and to
that end it needs to understand for
example if
it's owners under duress so you know if
you can imagine you're at a traffic
intersection
and uh the light turns green but the
owner
you know is having an issue and doesn't
necessarily want
to cross the street at that point coda
can understand this
as a duress event depending on the tone
and act accordingly and provide
additional information
uh and uh perhaps on route or what have
you
navigations built into the into the
system but the idea
here is not just to kind of use the
traditional sensors in the traditional
ways
it's really in the the whole idea behind
this is something
that can help its owners when it's
understood
so this is just a little quick summary
you know it's you know smarter safer
faster
uh there have been other things out on
the market this is really
its core was built to be a
decisionalized computing platform you
know
codas are are you know destined to be
able to teach each other with their
owner's permission
uh what they learn you know if one code
learns how to navigate a particularly
difficult type of stairs
it can share that information with other
codas
so other coders when they encounter
similar geometry
can navigate them uh you know obviously
much better
and so that's just obviously a very
small example but that
that really translates across what these
devices are able to learn
and share with each other uh there is
full control over what is shared and
received in terms of instruction
um but the idea here is it's going to
not just be a platform for decentralized
computing
and uh and you and ai it's uh
it's going to use it itself in order to
uh
in order to learn and learn quickly
a little bit about the company it's
headquartered in mountain view
california
uh it is a robotics innovation company
and
the whole idea is we would like to
harness uh
you know decentralized computing
a little bit on timeline a lot of people
ask it whenever we talk about this
we haven't really launched yet so uh for
the few that have seen uh what you're
seeing today
a little bit of background us beginning
in 2018
uh first lab-based prototype was in
january
um headquartered in silicon valley
opened up in february
here uh in uh silicon valley i've been
i'm personally in maryland though
uh uh july is the uh second generation
of the prototype
uh pre-orders start uh september 2020.
there's uh the fourth generation
prototype uh will be in october
then the fifth uh being launched at and
hopefully uh
we're all gonna be available to to see
it um in person
at uh in january at uh computer
electronics show
the delivery in june